# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* The game is short, takes about four and a half mins to complete about half the game time is spent of the boss.
* The graphics and animations are basic. The player and enemy models stand in a static 'A' pose for the entirety of the game.
* Platforms are limited to PC only. Console is a large market for souls-like games and the game requires a keyboard and mouse to play.
* Performance is limited by browser and hardware. The game's models are the majority of what the loading time is spent on. Some devices and browsers may cause the game to load slower.
* The game has no audio. Sound is a very big part of video games and my game does not have any. Audio could have been used to set the tone with music or to make combat feel better.

## Maintenance

My game has met the majority, but not all of my starting criteria. If the project was to remain at a similar scope then there would be a moderate amount of work to address the bugs found as most of them are small and could be fixed by changing a few lines of code at most. The job of fixing bugs could be given to a developer who was knowledgeable about how the code worked and functioned.

Addressing the limitations of my project would take much longer however as many of them such as platform and becoming standalone would require a significant amount of time to develop. The other limitations however would be much easier to address. The game's length and amount of content would be easy to increase as many of the systems that would allow for more weapons, enemies and places to explore are already in place. A team of people would probably be needed in order to address issues such as multiple platforms and the game length.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

The game has several bugs that need to be addressed. They are as follows:

* A floor tile that enemies get sucked into.
* Invisible triggers block enemy line of sight.
* Walking out of the boss room when the boss is dead reactivates his UI.
* The gate to the chapel can be jumped over, skipping the requirement to pull the Greymarsh lever. It can also suck the player in on contact.
* Attacking at the apex of a jump freezes the player.
* The fallen templar in the chapel sometimes leaves his room, chasing the player. He also gets twice as fast every time the player dies.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/du1xS2gjbPo" %}
A compilation of evidence of my bugs, in the same order
{% endembed %}

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

#### Standalone Application

The game's performance is limited as a web app which means that only the resources allocated to running the browser can be used to run the game. As a standalone app it would be able to run much faster which would allow for better graphics and a larger world. It would also make it possible to create and save files so that the player can pick up where they left off between play sessions.

#### Graphics

Although I am fond of low-poly art styles, I would prefer the game to have more detailed models and for those models to have animations to help convey the movement in gameplay. This would make the game look better and would help convey the theme and mood better. Animations would also aid in helping the player to recognise when an enemy is about to attack.&#x20;

If the game was made to be a standalone application, it would be much easier to use higher quality graphics.

#### World size

The game is fairly short, taking between 5-10 mins to beat from start to end and is also far more linear than I would like. By increasing the size of the world, more gameplay would be able to be fit in and the player would have a greater sense of exploration. As the game is so short, the difficulty has to remain low because the game does not have time to teach the player the skills required for more difficult encounters. This mean I could create more challenging encounters and bosses for the player.

Having a greater world would also allow me to make the separate areas of the game feel more fleshed out, for example, the city contains only about eight buildings (only one that the player can enter) and the castle only contains two corridors and one room.

#### Items

The game is already fully able to support the player changing their weapon, but I never added any other weapons due to time constraints. Adding new types of weapons with different stats and attacks would allow players to experiment with different playstyles and would add a sense of accomplishment when the player finds a new weapon and a feeling of getting stronger, which would aid player engagement and progression.

Additional mechanics could be tied to some weapons e.g. fires a projectile, changes your roll. This would help with making weapons feel more distinct and they could perhaps be hidden as secrets.

#### Enemy Variety

All of  the enemies in the game are melee fighters who run close to you and then attack. A variety in enemy types e.g. archers, which attack the player with projectiles from a distance; summoners, who summon more enemies to attack the player or more bosses with their own unique mechanics. This would increase engagement and would allow the game to be able to be increased in length without players becoming bored of the lack of variety.
