# 3.1 Testing for Function and Robustness

## Criteria To Assess

Find success criteria that relate to function and robustness

| Criterion                                  | Description                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [1](../1-analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md) | Consistent frame rate of 30fps. No crashes or mid-gameplay slowdowns. |
| [2](../1-analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md) | All inputs are consistently responsive.                               |
| [3](../1-analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md) | Game runs on most modern browsers.                                    |
| [4](../1-analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md) | Game performance is not hindered by browser or hardware.              |

### Criterion 1

My plan for this test was to have multiple tabs and other applications open and then play through the entire game. While playing, try to break it using rolls into areas of weird collision and see if it can be broken.

It did run well for the vast majority of the time but I did find two issues:

* The first gate can have problems with collision, sucking players into it and then randomly spitting them out.
* While OBS (a screen recording software) is running and the game is being stress tested, it can slow down.

### Criterion 2

To test the limits of the input system I tried to rapidly input commands at first to see if I could break it through brute force. After that failed to show any results, I next tried holding buttons as the game started to load and while clicking onto and off of the window. I found out that clicking off the window while holding a button and then releasing it and clicking back on would result in the button being registered as being held down until it was pressed again.

### Criterion 3 & 4

I normally run my game on chrome so I know that it runs on there. I first ran it on edge, which had slightly longer loading times due to being a slow browser but did run well overall.
