# 1.1 Problem Identification

Through recent years, people's mental health has been taking a toll as due to the covid-19 pandemic and the resulting lockdown. Although it is clearing up now, the effects on mental health are still noticeable as some people's mental health has declined. Key findings from reports have mentioned that there was a significant increase in mental health problems between before the pandemic and during it. It also showed that those of younger age more at risk [(World Health Organisation, 2022)](../analysis/references.md). This clearly shows that more mental health support will be needed for those of younger ages as they are more at risk, statistically. Therefore this should be the age range that should receive the most help.

To potentially combat the issues caused by the pandemic, video games have been offered as a solution. In a recent paper [(Granic, Engels, 2022)](../analysis/references.md) the researchers found that some mental health benefits of playing video games (for moderate and controlled periods) included increased attention spans, heightened emotional resilience, improved social skills and better mood management in the experiment's volunteers. This could help to combat the types of issues that were found to be present in the WHO's study on mental health during lockdown which included issues such as depressions and anxiety both of which were common issues during and as a result of the pandemic [(World Health Organisation, 2022)](../analysis/references.md).

Many people have turned to finding their own solutions to boredom for example, nearly half of America turned to video games during the pandemic [(Farokhmanesh, 2021)](../analysis/references.md) and in another study, 79% of gamers said that they feel less stressed and more relaxed after playing video games [_(_Entertainment Software Association, 2020_)._](../analysis/references.md) __ Therefore, the use of video games to potentially help to combat the effects of lockdown and post-lockdown may be valid because the benefits shown here may be able to counter the most common issues that had developed: anxiety and stress.

Video games, as suggested in the name, use complicated video graphics to display what is happening in the game and also have rules that can be too difficult for humans to compute in, say, a board game. Using computers for the task instead will be much more feasible to make the game able to be played at a fast pace.
