# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Core Mechanics

### Movement / Controls

The player will be able to run and walk in all directions \[WASD] and move the camera \[mouse move] to look in different directions. The player will be able to hold run \[shift] in order to move faster or tap run to get a burst of speed which is faster than running but only is active for a short time and cannot be rapidly pressed.

### Enemies

Enemies will be able to harm the player if the player stands in their attack. They will always try to attack the player while the player is close enough to them. They will navigate to the player around obstacles and attack when in range. They will have health that the player can deplete and they die when they reach 0, causing them to become inactive and sometimes give the player an item that they can use.&#x20;

### Combat

Players and Enemies will both use a combat system where attacks are made and tied to an animation. When the animation is in the damaging part of the animation, anybody in the damaging are will be injured for a set amount of damage. The player can use both heavy \[right click] and light \[left click] attacks, heavy attacks having a longer animation until they hit but dealing more damage and stunning longer whereas light attacks are faster and therefore safer but have reduced damage and stun time. The player will also be able to block \[middle mouse] attacks meaning they take much less damage from attacks while blocking but are slower and cannot attack or dodge.

## World

### Linear Open World

The world will be open with multiple paths and routes between objectives but the order of and the locations of objectives will always be the same. Certain objectives will have alternative objective e.g. the player can go to point B or point C after getting to point A but has to go to one of them. There will also be certain paths that are slightly hidden or require the player to problem solve how to get to them that may not always be the path forwards but can have hidden items or other secrets.

### Set Encounters

Enemies will spawn in set locations on the map they will only appear if their encounter has not been defeated yet (all enemies killed and player received an encounter grade). If some of the enemies in an encounter have been defeated or injured but not all when the player uses a saving spot, all the enemies will get full health again.&#x20;

### Bosses

Bosses appear as an encounter with only one enemy but that one enemy has much more health and deals much more damage. Boss enemies have attacks that are much more heavily telegraphed so the player can dodge them more easily. Bosses will also create a large UI element that constantly shows their health so that the player knows how far through they are in the fight as they will have to deal significantly more damage to it and as such, may not be able to guess how much more damage they need to deal without it.

### Items

After defeating certain enemies or bosses, or sometimes by finding hidden secrets, the player will be able to pick up items that can be equipped to gain advantages. Items will go to the player's inventory which they can open at any time to change what they are using. The inventory will take up a large portion of the screen but no more that 40% so that the player can still move around and fight while changing their item.

## Non Gameplay

### End of Encounter Grade

After defeating all the enemies in a set area, the player will receive a grade from F to S determined by damage taken (less is better), hit accuracy (higher is better) and highest combo achieved (higher is better). The encounter grade will not influence gameplay but will provide an incentive to play better and add replayability by letting the Player go for high scoring runs.

### Saving

The player will be able to save their progress along with all the items they have collected  so that they can continue from where they left off without having to replay lots of content. Players will be able to save only at certain spots in the world to prevent players from cheating encounters or immediately saving after every encounter. When the player saves, enemies will only respawn if their encounter was not finished but encounters that had had all their enemies defeated will not respawn.

### Title Screen

Upon opening the game, the player should be greeted with a tile screen that allows them to start playing the game from a selected save file. They will also be able to access an options menu to change the game in non gameplay way such as sound or texture detail.

## Limitations

### Performance

Being web based means that the performance of my game may be limited by the browser itself as different browsers do not run as well and having other tabs open may mean that my game has to share resources and processing power with other tabs in the browser.&#x20;

### Graphics

Complex models will take a lot of processing power to render compared to simpler ones and as being browser based may limit my game's performance and I want the game to be able to run on as many devices as possible, I will have to make the art style simple.

### Length

As the majority of the development time will be spent on designing and creating the game mechanics. There may not be much time left in the project's lifespan for creating content and as such may result in a shorter experience than many other games in its market.
