# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Abstraction is about removing the unnecessary detail from a problem and will be useful in my game because it allows me to focus on my core features which are:

* Models do not have to be realistic as the hitboxes will only be cylinders anyway so there is no need for detailed and realistic models
* The world does not need to be intricately made with detailed towns and buildings with many props and objects as the gameplay does not need props to function
* The hurt/hitboxes are simplified into large areas containing the whole animation as the player will be unlikely to be able to tell if an attack hits 5 frames before the models connect
* Moving around will appear to be physics based but will not use a proper physics engine as the player will not be able to tell the difference.
* The player will reuses animations between different weapons instead of simulating each weapon's style of usage as the combat is meant to appear flashy and impressive rather than realistic
* The UI only needs to tell the player their health and their combo as any other numbers the computer is storing to do with gameplay do not need to be shown with UI

## Thinking Ahead

By thinking ahead I can plan for how I want the end stages of the game to look. Therefore I can plan and make code that will allow me to build upon it. I will also need to think about the order I need to tackle tasks in as some will require other parts to have already been made in order to function. Thinking ahead will therefore save me time in the long term.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Creating snippets of code that can be reused makes the game's internal architecture easier to design and uphold. Reusable examples include certain functions for using 3d vectors, reused enemies between encounters and animations. Reusing code makes it easier to code and more readable, as well as making the project more scalable and have less bugs and errors.

Breaking a problem into its smaller components makes solving the problem much easier as these individual tasks can be tackled one by one. While I develop my project I will need to figure out what all of these sub-tasks are. Many of these have already been outlined in my [features ](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md)section. I will then be able to focus on these tasks one by one.

## Thinking Logically

Decisions occur all the time throughout a game and the nature of what decisions need to be taken will change based on what the player does in the games. The game will need to appropriately react to:

* Player input and if it should react to such an input e.g. some parts of animations cannot be cancelled out of
* The game needs to decide consistently when an attack has hit a target
* The game must decide when an enemy has detected the player
* When the player get to certain points in the world, the game needs to decide to load extra parts of it
* The game needs to decide if an enemy should drop an item when one dies

## Thinking Concurrently

The game must frequently manage multiple tasks at the same time. Otherwise the game would not play fluidly and would feel jittery or not responding well. Some examples of concurrently processed tasks in my project are:

* The Player moving around
* Enemies processing their AI
* The Player colliding with walls
* The camera rendering the environment
